
Finding the necessary materials.
======

Our preliminary reports have found small veins of Tritanium Ore, located below Y level 64. My team assures me, finding them won’t be our biggest problem. The real problem is finding that pesky Dilithium Ore. All our findings suggest concentrations occur below Y level 32. Some serious mining may be required, before finding those ores.  A Fortune Pick is highly suggested for this mission. Too bad we can't replicate the ores, or I’d literally be swimming in it!

The following is some useful gear the boys back at headquarters showed me, they ensured me it would be useful in your travels. Just try not to break them, those things ain’t cheap!

    Matter Scanner. Quite a nifty gadget! Will definitely be useful, but requires the Pattern Storage and some Pattern Drives, to store all the scanned patterns, and if you want, you can use it to read up on anything you've scanned!
    And most importantly, DO NOT PRESS ‘C’ while having a Matter Scanner in your inventory, or you will have a big GUI pop at you. Trust me, those things are not to be taken lightly!
    Phaser. In my opinion, having one of these babies is always handy. You don’t know when you might get in a tight spot, and you can always use it to shut up those noisy bovine neighbors of yours!
    Phaser Rifle. A weapon, for a real fighter! I just love the sound that puppy makes.
    Energy Pack. If you don’t have the resources to upgrade your weapon’s battery, you can always stock up on energy packs.

Getting on your feet.
======

Here's a hypothetical. Let’s say you found all you need, unlikely I know, but in the extreme case you do. Seeing as you would be starving, you would want to get the basics up and running, so you can replicate some amazingly energizing, very appetizing, as did I mention delicious, Emergency Rations! … what? Don’t give me that look! Ahem, where were we? Right, let’s get back to business.

Isolinear Circuit !!! I want you to make at least a stack of these things. The boys won't stop nagging me about how important these things are. If you ask me, they're just spouting a load of nonsense! They've taken to scattering them all over the lab. Cant walk nowhere without accidentaly stepping on one of them. I’m not ashamed to admit that I've made it my duty to step on every stray circuit I see.

Remember the Matter Scanner? Well you can link it up with a Pattern Storage and put in a few empty Pattern Drives, and you’ll be good to go. Run off and scan your favorite blocks. Don’t mind that you’ll destroy them in the process, and that you’ll need 10 of them to fully decode a pattern. Oh of course you can still try and replicate them, that is if you're one of those people that like getting covered in Matter Dust. I certainly won't be judging.

It’s a “matter ” of time.
======

You’ve built a Replicator!
Great job! Now you can die happy!
……… Just kidding!
To start using that thing, you’ll need a lot of preparation. It all starts with your first scanned item pattern. You need to store it in a Pattern Drive and then stick it in a Pattern Storage. Then you need to connect your Pattern Storage to a Pattern Monitor and finally connect it to your Replicator. Then just use the Pattern Monitor to send a replication command and watch the Replicator do its thing. Just be careful though! Without a few, uh let’s say 5 Tritanium Plate in your replicator, you’ll be loosing a lot more than you'll be gaining, seeing as the radiation poisoning might kill you! The boys back at the lab have told me that, in an extreme case you should, now don't lose me here, drink some milk. I know, I'm just as baffled as you are, but they assured me it's the only known cure for almost every known ailment. What do I know though?

What!?
The Replicator doesn’t work?
Well, of course dummy! You need some matter to make it from! Can't just wish it really hard into existence! Build yourself a Decomposer, and start braking down that useless cobblestone you have laying around everywhere. It’s disgusting, clean up once in a while! Once you have enough Matter, you can transfer it either, by Matter Pipe or by placing the Decomposer next to the replicator. Whatever floats your ship!

We are all connected
======

I know, I know.
You're tired of using that matter scanner.
What?
You’re not aw?
Well, no matter, you can connect your Matter Analyzer to you favorite Pattern Storage with some Matter Network Pipe. All you need is a Network Switch in between, to complete the connection. Then  throw those items into the Matter Analyzer, and don’t worry about a thing! Cause, every little thing is gonna be all right!

The best part though, is if you have a Pattern Monitor just laying around you can just hook that thing up to a Network Switch and order yourself some delicious Emergency Rations, or maybe some hot Earl Gray Tea. I myself just can’t stop eating Emergency Rations, and NO. It’s not a problem. Just mind your own cobble habits, and I'll be eating my rations over here… Make sure you have a Replicator connected as well, or your request won’t be processed. Just like the boys back in the lab, they can be so stubborn sometimes.

All out of Juice!
======

So you have more machines that you know what to do with? Worry not !
The boys have detected a funny looking anomaly, something to do with gravity. But that’s not the fun part. They assure me that they have a way to generate enormous amounts of energy from those "anomalies". The small problem they say, is that anything that goes near one, will be thrown all over the place, and if they're lucky they won't be crushed immediately. No, it will just crush every bone in their body and throw it half way round the world.
So I asked the boys nicely and they came up with this ingenious device, the Space-Time Equalizer! It will help you approach these Anomalies without being turned into spaghetti.
As for the energy generation, that’s way out of my pay grade! They made you some Schematics, now where were they... Ah here, How to Build a Fusion Reactor.
The only part I got, was: “the anomaly is always hungry, like someone we know”. And then they proceeded to laugh. Not sure what they meant by that, but i did get a bit hungry for some Emergency Rations! Man I love those things.
Anyway, I also remember they told me that the larger the anomaly the more power it can generate.
